Hey everyone It's Andre again.
I just wanted to talk quickly about the upcoming videos you see.
We're going to start working on our signing page and signing is something that is extremely common all
across apps throughout your career.
You're for sure going to have to need to create some sort of a sign for it.
Now sign in is a combination of creating forms like this and also doing something called user authentication
where we're able to register a user and also check if a user exists and let them sign it over the next
couple videos.
We're going to try and solve this very common problem and we're going to try and show the best way to
do it with react as well as later on using some sort of back and storage using firebase to actually
get this feature to work now over the next couple of videos.
We're going to assume that you know basic HMO all forms if you don't I'll link to this resource so you
can read up on it but we assume that EMR forms is something that you're quite familiar with and you're
also familiar with things like event prevent default.
And why you will see in the next couple of videos is a very common pattern that you'll use not just
with this project but with future project as well.
So when you see things like event prevent default and maybe you don't understand it again it's always
good to make sure that you stop pause and maybe google around but for example prevent default is used
to stop the default behavior of an HMO form and potentially hijack it or prevent something from happening.
So we have more control.
But the most important thing that we're going to talk about and something that you'll carry with you
throughout your career is this as we're building this sign in and register functionality these three
points are going to be really evident.
And I want you to really pay attention on what we're going to do to make sure that we create these components
and the functionality using these three principles.
For example when it comes to deciding on components we'll see that we have forms that are quite similar.
We have buttons that are quite similar instead of coding them each individually.
We're going to have components that are flexible enough to be able to use just want one react component
and style it or form it in different ways.
Remember is all about reusable components.
If we take a look at the code which you're going to write over the next couple of videos again you won't
have this yet when we work on the sign in component.
We're going to get to a point where we have this form input component that we're going to create ourselves
a custom component so that we go from having a simple simple e-mail input component to something that
is flexible that we can pass in different properties to customize to our liking.
For example you register and a signing component.
We also have a custom button where we can give it different customizations.
In this case it's only the signing but this custom button can be used with our signing with Google as
well as the sign up.
Eventually so you're going to see how to decide on these components how to make them reusable across
our different app but more importantly we're going to really figure out these two things deciding where
the state should live and what changes when state changes.
Again this is code that we're going to write together.
But you'll notice that we have a handle submit method and a handle change method.
The one method is going to happen whenever somebody is typing information in the input box where we
update the state and a another one which is the handle submit which will handle when somebody clicks
on one of these buttons so we're going to start with basic input to a simple syntax and basic button
a simple syntax to creating these custom reusable components that are able to react to user changing
the state of the application and the final thing I want to mention is this Where do you think the state
for the form less.
This is a very common problem with react.
For example we have or we're going to have a sign in page as you can see here and this sign in page
will be an entire component that contains these two forms.
Now each of these forms will have its own component.
One will be the sign component one the register component but here's my question if this was our sign
in page and this was our signing and this is our register where should the state live.
Where should the information that the user types in for example in here where should it live.
Should it live in this component should it live in this component or should it live.
And this entire page component paused the video and think about that.
Ready for the answer.
The easiest way to think about this is to lift up the state only up to the point that the components
need it so when we create this component we're going to actually keep the state in its own individual
component so sign in is going to have its own state and register is going to have its own state.
Why is that.
Well because these two things don't need to talk to each other.
In doesn't really care what we enter in register and register doesn't care what's in the form of sign
it.
So if we lifted the state up and kept the state in the entire page every time we update this and the
state changes both of these would get we rendered.
So that means two extra calculations that react has to do to re render this and we render this if we
kept state just in the sign because that's the only place that we care about those changes.
Only this component is going to get really rendered when we type something in here or click some men
instead of this over here.
I want you to just notice this as we're building it.
That e was going to make these decisions and try to keep state to the lowest possible level.
Keeping the concern in place to whatever component needs it so that we're more efficient with your code.
This is something that will come with practice but remember over the next couple of videos.
Notice how e war is going to keep these three principles in mind and build out the components.
Let's get started.